1. Reach for a book you know you’ll like because of the author.one
If you’re an avid reader, you probably have an author or two you absolutely adore. Read through the author’s list of works to see what titles you haven’t read—these unread titles may just be 5-star reads!Find an author’s list of works or catalog on their website, Goodreads and Amazon profiles, or in the front or back matter of their books.Consider rereading some of your favorite author’s books if you’re in a slump. You know the book is good, and there’s no harm in reading it again.

2. Opt for a book that’s already critically acclaimed and highly rated.
It’s easy to feel overwhelmed about what to read next when there are thousands upon thousands of books to choose from. Narrow down your search by taking a look at classics or award-winning books. These books are deemed notable for a reason, so pick one up to see what all the hype is about. Give one or more of these lists a scroll and see what sparks your interest:Pultizer Prize for FictionPultizer Prize for NonfictionThe Booker PrizeJohn Newbery MedalMichael Printz AwardWomen’s Prize for Fiction

3. Find a good book by following your hobbies and interests.
If you’re stuck on what book to pick next, reach for something that resembles your real life. This is a great way to discover characters and stories you can relate to. Scan titles and covers for keywords that represent your favorite things, or do a quick online search with your keyword and “book” or “fiction book.”If you’re a baker, look for books where the main character is a baker.If you like space, pick a book with “space” in the title or a cover full of stars.If you’re obsessed with mythology, search “mythology young adult fiction.

4. Chat with friends, family, and booksellers to see what books they’re reading.
Sometimes the best way to pick a book is by phoning a friend. Reach out to a book-loving friend or family member to see if they’ve read anything good lately. Head over to a local bookstore or library and ask workers what they’d recommend based on your interests.Post that you’re looking for book recommendations on social media—you never know what your followers will suggest! You can even include your genre and/or topic preferences for more specific recommendations.If you have a favorite author, your library might have lists of recommended authors you might enjoy.

5. Scour the internet for the latest book reviews and recommendations.
Staying updated on what books are trending and gaining wide media coverage can help you find a book everyone else is reading and raving about. Keep an eye on the New York Times Bestseller’s List and sign-up for book-related newsletters.Goodreads, Bookreporter, and Book Riot showcase reader reviews and ratings.

6. Click on book recommendations lists that go with your preferences.
Websites and online book communities such as Goodreads and BookRiot compile lists according to reading preferences. If you’re not sure what to read next, consider scrolling through these lists to find a title that interests you.Goodreads personalizes their recommendations based on what you’ve read, your book ratings, and what other readers are saying.BookRiot compiles lists based on current trends and pop culture references.

7. Communicate with like-minded readers on social media to grow your TBR.
Bookstagram, BookTok, and BookTube (the reading-centric sides of Instagram, TikTok, and YouTube) give you the chance to interact with fellow readers and be a part of the book-world hype. If you’re struggling to pick a book to read, click on a book-centric social media profile to see what everyone else is reading.Follow book influencers with the same reading preferences as you for more personalized recommendations.Search book-related hashtags like #bookstagram, #booklover, and #reader.

8. Join or start a book club to discover new books.
In a book club, you read, discuss, and analyze books of all genres, topics, and preferences. Being a member can motivate you to read, help you make new friends, and give you the chance to expand your personal library.Consider joining a book club that reads a wide range of books or focuses on a particular genre or time period.Ask your library or local bookseller if they manage or know of any community book clubs you can join.

9. Scroll through your library’s recommendations to find something new.
Go to your library’s website and click the option to view their catalog. Select your book preferences—genre, author, age range—and start scrolling. When you find something interesting, place a hold on the book to pick it up later.Some libraries offer a service called Libby, which allows you to digitally check out books and read them on your Kindle, phone, or tablet. This way, you can search, place a hold, and/or borrow a book without leaving the couch.

10. Browse library and bookstore shelves until you land on a title that interests you.
Focus on a section in the library or store that interests you most—maybe that’s fantasy, historical fiction, or young adult. Pull out the book and read the synopsis when your eye lands on something neat. If you’re still intrigued, give it a read!Don’t be afraid to pick a book because of its cover—if it catches your eye, it’s worth checking out.

11. Pick a book randomly from your TBR shelf to surprise yourself.
More often than not, your next 5-star read is sitting on your shelf waiting to be read. Before you head to the store or library, consider taking a peak at what you currently own to see if anything sparks your interests.Take a peek at your family and friends’ bookshelves too! If you borrow a book, make sure to bring it back as good as new.

12. Take time to read the book's first chapter to get a feel for the writing style.
The first chapter of a book should capture you almost immediately. If you don’t like the first chapter, you might not like the rest of the book. So, give the first chapter a shot, and if you’re itching to read more, chances are you found a good book.Try this tip when you have 2 or more books you’re debating on reading to help you solidify or narrow your choices.Listen to an audiobook sample if you don’t have the physical book.

13. Find a good book by seeing if your favorite movie is a book-to-movie adaptation.
You liked the movie, so who’s to say you won’t like the book? Do a bit of online research to see if any of your favorite movies are book-to-movie adaptations. Then, consider giving the book a try. Chances are, you’ll like the book just as much as the movie!Notice how the book and movie adaptations of the story differ. Is there one you prefer over the other?Famous book-to-movie adaptations include Harry Potter, The Lord of the Rings, Little Women, The Life of Pi, and Carrie.

14. Dig into who inspired your favorite books to find your next 5-star read.
Chances are, your favorite author or story was influenced by something or someone. Try researching what types of stories and authors your favorite author likes. Find interviews of the author where they discuss their work.Follow the author on social media to see if they post about what they’re currently reading.
