How to meet entrepreneurs?

Method 1 
Meeting Entrepreneurs Online 

1 
Follow and interact with entrepreneurs on Twitter. Unlike other social media platforms, Twitter is in real time and typically stays up on the latest in business and news. You can network by liking, following, and commenting on entrepreneur’s profiles. Find trending and pertinent content and try to build up the number of people that follow you to expand your presence on the platform.[1] 
Some entrepreneurs you may want to follow include Melissa Stewart, Steve Forbes, Kevin Rose, and Richard Branson.[2] 
You can also direct message someone if you have a question or want to speak with them. 

2 
Connect, comment, and like content on networking websites. Sites like LinkedIn, PartnerUp, and Entrepreneur Connect were created specifically for business networking. Sign up by creating an account and find like-minded entrepreneurs or people in your field. Then, interact with their content so that they become aware of your profile.[3] 
Post frequently and comment or like other people’s content to improve your presence on the platforms. 

3 
Join an online community for entrepreneurs. Organizations like Business Collective, YEC, and Founders Society are online communities for entrepreneurs. There, you can talk to other entrepreneurs, get advice and mentoring, and build your professional network.[4] 
Business Collective is for newer entrepreneurs while YEC and Founders Society are for more established entrepreneurs. 

4 
Download a business networking app. Phone apps like Happening, Aloqa, and GroupMe will use your phone’s GPS to find networking events and workshops in your area. This is a great way to locate events where you can meet entrepreneurs in person.[5] 
Once you find networking events, you can attend them in person. 
Method 2 
Meeting Entrepreneurs in Person 

1 
Attend trade shows and conferences in your industry. Do some research online and find trade shows or conferences happening around you. Your local convention center will typically be the venue that hosts the bigger conferences and trade shows.[6] 
Check the convention center’s calendar to determine which shows and conferences are coming up. 

2 
Go to networking events in your area. There are networking events in every city for a variety of different industries. Find events that apply to your specific industry. You can find networking events on sites like Meetup, Eventbrite, and Facebook.[7] 
Popular industries for networking events include investment, software, programming, and biotech. 

3 
Work in a co-working space. Co-working spaces are communal working spaces for contractors and entrepreneurs. If you work from home or work remotely, rent a desk in a co-working space. Once you’re there, try to socialize with other people utilizing the space.[8] 
Co-working spaces usually have a fee associated with using the space. 
Search for co-working spaces online to find one that works for you. 

4 
Join a civic organization. Enroll in a local community or civic organization by searching online. Typically, many other entrepreneurs will be members. You can reach out to other members or meet new people at the organization’s events.[9] 
Join a civic organization that is doing something that you can support. 
Civic organizations include Rotary International, Lions, and Kiwanis. 
Method 3 
Networking at an Event 

1 
Make a goal for the night. Before you even attend the networking event, make sure to have a goal in mind. This could be something like meeting 5 new people in your industry or connecting with a programming expert.[10] 
If your goal is to generally strengthen your network, make it your goal to meet as many people as you can. 

2 
Read up on news in your industry before the networking event. Knowing the latest news in your industry will give you something to talk about, especially when speaking to strangers. Look online for news about your industry so that you seem knowledgeable when you speak to people.[11] 
Knowing the news will also help you connect with others in your industry. 

3 
Dress well to make a good first impression. First impressions will set the tone for how your colleagues perceive you. Look neat and composed when you go to networking events and people will feel comfortable approaching you.[12] 
Brush your teeth and take a shower before attending the event so that you smell good. 

4 
Introduce yourself to new people. You can introduce yourself by saying something like "Hello, my name is Katy, what's your name?" People at networking events are there to meet people too, so most people will be willing to talk to you.[13] 
Be yourself and act natural when having conversations with strangers. 

5 
Practice active listening when speaking with people. Make eye contact with the person so that you look engaged. Carefully listen to what people have to say. This will help you interact, respond, and continue conversations.[14] 
People appreciate a good listener. 

6 
Leave your business card with people you'd want to work with. Your business card should have contact information like your email address and phone number. Get people's contact information before you leave the networking event.[15] 
You can create a custom business card online. 

7 
Follow up with the people that you met. Touch base with the people that you met at the networking event by contacting them after the event. Add them on LinkedIn and mention a conversation that you had at the event. If you met someone that you could potentially work with, send them a message and explain the project that you have in mind.[16] 
You can also ask your new networking contact if they want to meet up for coffee to continue a discussion that you had at the networking event. 
